Viewing Lila de Magalhaes’s exhibition “Spank the Sky,” at Lulu, I was reminded of a recently circulating meme comparing the angels that have come to populate the cultural imaginary—chubby blond cherubs and hot, haloed femmes—to those described in the Bible: animal-headed creatures covered in wings and eyes, full of God’s righteous wrath. The seraph depicted in The Merry Arsonist (all works 2020) would fit right in with the eldritch beings imagined in the Old Testament. A caped creature—part insect, part mammal—cruises through a dark sky, like an emissary from another world, illuminating its surroundings with torchlike matches held up in its many hands. De Magalhaes’s technique lends the scene an eerie mysticism: the show’s five works are all intricate embroideries on dyed and stretched bedsheets, lightly supplemented by chalk pastel. The textures are slightly worn, the colors soft and subdued, heightening the preternatural strangeness of her imagery. 

In this handful of works, the Brazilian-Swiss artist weaves a tender cosmology where creatures of all kinds meet: earthly and otherworldly, large and small, weird and mundane. In Filhota, set against a field of tie-dyed midnight blue and lime green that is at once celestial and psychedelic, a dreamy centipede circling the center of the composition fixes its buggy eyes on an anthropomorphized butterfly with pouty red lips waving flirtily from the lower left corner. They are surrounded by a similar cast of characters: a buzzing fly with vibrating wings delicately stitched in lilac and pink, a dragonfly with squiggly limbs, a round little bumblebee. The Night Shift suggests a similarly lively after-hours get together. A naked angel with a menacing smile stands on the face of a grimacing flower as a worm playfully chews on its petal. Above them, a dragonfly pursues a butterfly, and another pair of winged insects share a cocktail. In this nocturnal scene, de Magalhaes plays with the cheerful animism typical of children’s books, where teacups and shoes possess names and emotions, but uses it to different ends, imagining living beings that we tend to regard as objects, like flowers and insects, sharing martinis and engaging in light bondage.

Only two of the works depict humans directly. In Two Gardeners, a figure peers her eye into a hole in the dirt to find a worm’s eye looking back. The worm is the neighbor of a pair of beets, and a cross section of their underground abode takes up most of the image; the view de Magalhaes presents is their world peering into ours instead of the other way around. But the stunning Pyromania complicates the borders between us and them entirely: delineated in yellow on a pink ground is the outline of a woman’s body viewed from the back, with snails, butterflies, worms, and centipedes catching a ride on top as she crawls away, all surrounded by vibrating, fiery lines. A tangle of human and nonhuman limbs, heads, and eyes, the scene seems less like an emergency exit from a fire than an ecstatic, hallucinatory communion, the euphoric dissolution of boundaries.

De Magalhaes’s works remind us of a reality that has become more painfully obvious lately: that nonhuman beings are not and have never been separate from us, that we are all symbiotic partners, sharing a planet—and even our individual bodies—with visible or invisible collaborators. Her depiction of this coexistence as enchanted and poetic offers a welcome glimpse of fairy-tale hope in a world that feels like it’s nearing the end.
Drive long enough on any American highway and you will pass a prison. Even at a distance, its ominous form is instantly recognizable, the telltale watchtowers and razor wire–topped fences marking it as an outpost of the United States’s sprawling penal system. Millions of people are incarcerated in prisons, jails, and detention centers across the country, and tens of millions more must organize their lives around imprisoned loved ones. This web of incarceration is so large that it has its own economy, culture, and demographic trends.


In his solo show “American Rendition” at Malin, Jesse Krimes explores the history of the carceral state through a quintessentially American cultural artifact: the decorative quilt. Incorporating different styles and techniques, the twelve large quilts on view feature layered motifs alluding to the modern criminal justice system and its forerunners, slavery and work farms. In North Star (2019), the black silhouette of a person appears atop an image of a birdcage, his body intersecting with a nineteenth- century jailhouse, all framed by a border of Ohio stars, a traditional quilt pattern. At the center of another work, Equality Quilt (2020), a collage of photo-transferred images of protests and phrases like black power crowds into a diamond-shaped space. Krimes surrounds these emblems with arrangements of colored blocks covered in geometric and floral stitched patterns.
Incarceration forms the heart of Krimes’s creative inquiry. He studied sculpture in college but developed his work with textiles and collage while serving a six-year prison sentence for selling cocaine. In addition to the quilts, “American Rendition” features five small pastiches that Krimes made in 2009–10, while in federal prison in North Carolina. He created them with a spoon and hair gel, transferring images from newspapers onto canvases made of stretched bed sheets. Several reinterpret famous artworks, such as Botticelli’s Birth of Venus or Michelangelo’s Creation of Adam, replacing the heads of the paintings’ protagonists with newspaper portraits of celebrities and criminals. These smaller pieces presaged Apokaluptein 16389067 (2010–13), currently on display in “Marking Time: Art in the Age of Mass Incarceration” at MoMA PS1, a prison cell–size panorama that Krimes created using the same technique.

The quilts in “American Rendition” build on the image-transfer and textile works Krimes developed in prison. Krimes made six of them for a project he organized with the Vera Institute of Justice in 2019, “Voices from the Heartland.” Developed and staged in rural Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, where the artist grew up, the project was intended to draw attention to the fact that rural Americans make up the fastest growing population in jails and prisons, despite conventional notions that mass incarceration is an urban phenomenon. Krimes worked with current and former inmates and law enforcement officers to select the visual themes for the quilts and then with local Amish and Mennonite artisans to construct them. The quilts were originally exhibited in a barn at the center of a corn maze, accompanied by a slate of talks and community events.

Other works belong to a new series, “Elegy Quilts” (2020), which touches on the more personal effects of incarceration. Constructed primarily out of clothes and other textiles that the artist collected from current and former prisoners, the “Elegy Quilts” employ patchwork and appliqué techniques to depict empty chairs, inspired by conversations with several inmates about places that made them feel comfortable or at home. Set against beautiful patterns—swathes of floral print fabric or blocks of jagged cloth scraps randomly sewn together—the chairs are meant to represent both the absent prisoner and the domestic privacy and comfort they have lost.

Interest in quilting, the archetypal American folk art, declined after the advent of machined textiles in the early twentieth century but was rekindled around the 1977 bicentennial as a way to evoke cherished ideals of American exceptionalism: self-sufficiency, hard work, and thrift. Krimes’s quilts trouble this easy nostalgia. His work asks that we recognize the essentially American character of mass incarceration: from the slave plantation to the modern prison, it is woven into the fabric of the nation.